# HP Laserjet 1020 – Excellent For Home And Business Us

## Original Links

- [x] Original Technet URL [HP Laserjet 1020 – Excellent For Home And Business Us](https://gallery.technet.microsoft.com/HP-Laserjet-1020-Excellent-26d905ec)
- [x] Original Technet Description URL [Description](https://gallery.technet.microsoft.com/HP-Laserjet-1020-Excellent-26d905ec/description)
- [x] Download: Not available.

## Output from Technet Gallery

The market for laserjet printers has grown rapidly in recent years, and the HP laserjet 1020 printer is a popular competitor in this market. Until recently, most businesses went for the cheaper color inkjet printers. It has become increasingly clear that  the low up front price of these printers was more than offset by the high cost of refills, making their cost per sheet quite high. In addition, their slow printing speed compared unfavorably with laser printers. The price of laser printers has fallen considerably  in the last few years, and they are now seen as a much better proposition for businesses.

There are several reasons for this. Laser printers are quieter and more efficient than inkjets, and they print pages far faster. They also produce fewer problems when printing. Inkjets can keep throwing up unnecessary error messages when there is actually no  problem, or the machine seems to go haywire suddenly and starts printing gibberish. However, the most impressive advantage of laser printers, including the Laserjet HP 1020; is they are more economic. Adding up the price of most printers, plus the price of  the toner cartridge gives a printing cost of about 2-3 cents per page, at least six times less than that of an inkjet printer.

Another advantage of laser printers is that it is much easier to obtain cheaper remanufactured or replacement toner cartridges, which brings the printing cost down even further. Many companies provide refill kits and compatible cartridges for laser printers,  most of them being comparable in quality to the original. Replacement cartridges for inkjet printers do not work nearly as well, and are often awkward and messy to change.

HP Laserjet printers are a leading brand of laser printer, and come in a wide variety of models, some of which are suitable for large business use. The monochrome HP Laserjet 1020 is not in fact a machine that would be considered adequate for the printing requirements  of a larger business. It is really designed as a printer for a home office or a small business, and as such it is generally considered to do an excellent job. Its output of 15 sheets per minute is quite sufficient for such jobs as student dissertations, office  reports and brochures, as well as letters and memos which are likely to be what it is most commonly used for.

One feature that makes the [HP Laserjet](http://www8.hp.com/us/en/printers/laserjet.html) 1020 printer excellent for home or small office use is its compact design. At just over a foot long, and weighing just 11 pounds, the Laserjet 1020 HP will fit on most people’s desks, however cluttered they may be. It can even sit on a  shelf or a bookcase, as the input and output trays are both at the front. The paper feeders can be folded in when not in use, making it even more compact. In addition, it is attractive to look at with its white sides and light gray top panel. The HP Laserjet  1020 is extremely simple to use, with just two status LEDs at the top as the only controls. It comes with a hard copy getting started guide. It also has a very user friendly CD-ROM with animated cartoon sequences.

The printing capacity of the 1020 makes it perfectly adequate for use in a home office or small business according to http://www.bestqualityprinter.com. It has a 234 MHz processor, a 600 x 600 dpi resolution, and a 2MB memory capacity. There is also a FastRes mode, offering 1200 dpi, though some users say they cannot see any  difference. The maximum monthly duty cycle of 5,000 sheets is not enough for large users, but makes it quite robust for its size. A useful feature of the HP Laserjet 1020 is its priority sheet tray for a single sheet of paper, in addition to its standard paper  tray. The second paper feed also means you can feed in labels and envelopes, one at a time, without having to take the paper out of the paper tray. A drawback to some, however, is that there is no straight paper path for thicker media such as photo paper.  The main paper tray holds 150 sheets, which is not enough for some users. One feature which is very much praised, is its computer connection via a high speed USB cable, which gives it a fast operating speed. It takes less than 10 seconds from command to print.

The main reason for the small size of the HP 1020 is that it contains just one black toner cartridge, which is accessed by opening the panel at the top. A replacement cartridge will last for about 2,000 pages, which at $70 per cartridge works out at about  3.5 cents per page, in line with its closest competitors such as the Lexmark E250d at 3.8 cents. However, the HP Laserjet 1020, unlike many of its competitors, comes with a retail cartridge when purchased, not a partly-filled sample cartridge, so there will  be no need for a replacement for some time.

The text print quality of the 1020 is considered good by most users; though it is dark gray rather than black, which some users do not like. The laserjet 1020 can print up to 15 pages per minute in black and white. Some users have complained of fuzzy edges  to text; especially at the base. The graphics print quality is adequate, though not as good as the text, with some blotching showing in solid blocks of print, unlike the graphics in the Lexmark E250d or the Samsung ML-2571N. However, the graphics quality would  be fine for home or small business jobs such as charts, college assignments or personal projects.

Some users have identified some limitations of the HP Laserjet 1020. One of these is the lack of [automatic duplex printing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duplex_printing), unlike the Lexmark E250d at $20 more. However, the HP Laserjet 1020 does provide a manual driver support for duplex printing, which can be installed when required. Another  complaint is that the printer is not compatible with some of the newer operating systems including Windows 7 and Windows Vista, and cannot be used with Apple at all. Also there are difficulties with printing out PDF documents correctly; which can be quite  a serious problem for many people.

Some people find it a problem that the HP Laserjet 1020 has only 2MB of memory, which is a long way short of the 32MB offered by one of its main competitors, the Samsung ML-2571N. This does not, however, really limit its printing capacity as it can draw on  the memory of the computer to which is attached. A more serious limitation of the Laserjet 1020 to some is the fact that unlike the Samsung ML-2571N it has no network connectivity. This of course would not necessarily be required for home use.

In fact, most of the complaints about the limitations of the HP Laserjet 1020 are from people who expect it to perform at the capacity of a printer for large business use. If you are looking for a printer that will do all the jobs you need for your home office  or small business, the HP 1020 would actually be hard to beat. It saves space, saves energy, and saves money, and it does exactly what it claims to do. Given its modest price, there are few other printers that offer such good value.

